I welcome back on this video.
Here we are going to be practicing section number seven.
All right.
So I'm glad you made it congratulations again.
You are really ready to war.
Right.
So here we're going to be in the practical lab 7. ph.
Now this section here is asking us to create a database.
Can you believe it.
We are actually going to create a database.
Now once we create a database we need to create a table right like the one from the lecture and we're
going to put some data and we need to connect to the database and read the data of course.
Ooh let's go ahead and see how we can do that actually.
Go ahead and you do it yourself first and then I'll walk you right through it right.
Don't be scared.
You can do it just watch the lecture or just create a very simple database with a very simple table.
And that's very simple put some data and let's just read it all right.
So go ahead and don't try to do it even if it takes you a day or two and then come back to this video
and see if our code matches.
Hopefully you were able to post the video.
All right if I just pause right now though unshy.
All right anyways so hopefully you pause the video and did it.
And if you have any issues don't worry everything's going to be clear now.
So let's go to our local whole speech be my ADD ME HOW ABOUT THAT Lokos BHP my admin.
And here we're going to create a little simple database databases create.
And well I want to call this my list.
Wow that's a crazy database name right create.
It's going to be right here.
I'm going to click on it.
Now we're going to create a table we're going to hold.
It's going to be called the reports.
That's a strange name to write on my list.
And reports is going to have three fields of fine go.
We're going to put the idea here and the first one and we're going to set it to 11 and make sure it's
autoincrement.
Make sure the primary is there.
All right.
We're done here right seconds going to be days of the week.
Shoot me and.
This one is going to be I don't know days.
This is going to be months.
Let's just make it simple let's just make it simple.
Let's not go and months and let's just make it simple why make your heart right.
So the week is fine.
I was fine with.
I don't know why I deleted it right there and months.
I don't know.
I just wanted to name something different and Varadkar let's just put here I don't know.
Thirty two characters is five months after it was fine.
I was just going to create something very simple and fast.
That way you can get some re-inforce information on it.
Let's just save it.
We are done now.
So let's go ahead and now that we're done with a database this person data into to insert and for the
ID going to live with the way it is since it's going to increment automatically for the days of the
week here.
I'm just going to put Monday.
Monday and months is going to be in January
and I'm just going in check this is going in certain data into here.
And these are the we're going to put Tuesday here and months February for robbery.
All right.
So take good here and just going to click go all right when it started to roll into the database.
Now let's go ahead and build that connect to the database so that way we can pull some data out of here.
Let's go ahead and put this I can could connect to the database right here if I wanted to.
All right so let's just go ahead and do that but I like to do it on top all the time so I'm not going
to break the cycle.
So let's go ahead and do that here.
And we've got functions make sure functions in header.
They're going to do in between here that's fine.
All right.
So when do is open it ph be tag creation space so how do we connect to the data.
What do you remember when we use we use a function called my Eskew ally underscore connect and we also
assign that to a variable but let's just do it this way so that where you can see my ass.
Q q ally on the score connect is going to give you that connection.
Now we need to pass it a couple of parameters right.
First we need to pass the server.
Right we are in the local hall.
So that's the location right here locals right there where we need to know let him know exactly where
he's getting all that information right.
Well we have a user name but actually rule.
We don't have a really custom made user name yet.
Then we don't have any password.
And the last parameter is the name of the database and the name of the database is my list my list I
think is right here my list.
All right let's check the connections here.
This is the most crucial part right here once you connect then things could be a lot easier.
So let's do an if statement in say here if all you're a matter of fact let's just let's use our scientists
to a variable called connection that where we can check the connection a lot better than just putting
all this in Dave's statement.
You know it's a lot better to handle that.
Let's just say if not connection
we do something right.
And we just got a call actually we're going to make everything stop executing and we're going to display
a message saying something like database connection failed and we are going to concatenate something.
This function my S Q L.
Ever since we gave a lot more information with it and we're going to pass it in the connection so that
way it says is that it says is it to see if it falls or if it's true.
And depending on that would give us an error and let us know a lot more information that just does die
here with his tests and else we're going to say great great we are connected we are connected and if
I'm going fast Remember this is just a reinforcement.
You should know this.
And if you don't just positive it can go back to your lecture and find find out how to do this but you
can watch meaning and you should be able to remember the stuff that we went over.
I know this is new information it could be a little hard but.
All right.
So let's open this in the browser.
Let's go back to our application let's just click and says we are connected.
So we are good to go with that.
All right.
Perfect.
So now I don't want to display that we are connected thing there.
I'm just going to take it off.
I just wanted to see that we are connected right.
I really want to have Dizzle there.
So now that we are connected Let's go ahead and make the Querrey and I'm just going to make the query
down here now really kind of make it up here that's fine.
Make it up here.
So the first thing that we need to make the query is the query.
Let's just make a query.
Remember that we need to make the query it's going to be all strings but we need to save it somewhere.
So I'd like to save it in a variable called query.
So let's do a s ul statement here is called select all which That's what this actually means.
All from where.
Why is it that we're selecting everything from the reports because we already connected to the database.
We don't need to do anything else with this.
So we want to see everything here because we are using that database and how we are connected to these
databases right here.
So we are using it.
So let's go ahead and see everything from reports.
All right.
So we're done with that.
And now let's go ahead and send this query to the database with my rescue command the code that just
let me just do this for us.
It's called my SU ally Querrey I believe.
Yes there we go.
Perfect.
And we're going to send it in with a connection because he needs to know how to connect.
And then the parameter is the query that we are sending.
And remember that we are assigning it.
We need to sign something else so that we can check on that connection.
Right.
Just like we would with this.
We can check.
Let's check on that Querrey.
And we are signing something like with salt and let's check the Querrey and see if we went through if
not resold then we went to see something
we can say something like die.
But in this case I want to actually find out use die.
That's fine.
It's the right way to do it.
Querrey failed him big right there.
All right so let's check it out.
Let's see if we made it.
Refresh Ooh.
Undefined cost and we saw dog.
Hey I forgot this.
Here we go.
This is refresh.
And we have no messages.
At that.
So we are good to go.
We are.
Good yeah.
So we connected.
Perfect.
All right.
So now that we have that we have this where are we sending this and we have this resort already here
because we are selecting everything from that table.
Let's go ahead and find a way to display right here on the content side.
All right.
And how we are going to do that by using a while loop remember that.
So let's go ahead and open our BHB dogs and let's use a while loop right here and let's just say Wow.
OK.
So while something is true why is why is it going to be cool.
We're going and we need to use a function call my as well.
Everything is my ask you alive fetch and store source to bring the associative array instead of a regular
one.
I don't know if you remember that.
And we're going to pass it in the resoled from and where he is.
So true.
By the way we know that resaw is true and we need to use something like I don't know records record
year records.
We need to use a variable to handle this result here.
All right.
So we are going to loop around all of the resource here with what we get back is an associate of Ray.
But we need to look through it and we're going to use this while loop to loop through it using this
function right here also.
So we're going to call these records or record that's fine record.
All right.
So how we are going to be doing this first.
Remember when we used to print our So we use a print are here and let's just check it out.
She can check it out.
The check check out.
They are social every check looks very refresh.
There we go.
That's how it looks.
So we've got an array here as an idea of one day of the week and then we have Monday months in January.
All right so the days of the week key has a value of money.
As you can see right there and key months has a value of Gen3.
All right.
So and the other one has the value of February and the value of today.
So how can we just print out some of this stuff out instead of everything.
Have you thought about that.
I mean we right now we're just printing using print are of print all this.
We want to print out the months right the days in.
So how can we do that.
We used the key want to print out this we need to use the key to print out the value right.
If we want to equities we will use the key.
So let's just use this key right here right here.
It's used that way.
So record I'm just going to say that let's just echo this right here.
We're going to use Recker and the key that should give us what we need right.
Let's make sure we push on because there is a stream value coming back.
Let's come back here refresh because we are echoing Monday and Tuesday.
Right because those are the days of the week that column has those values.
So we are this plane that you see that perfect.
So we are displaying all that information there.
Great.
So as you can see here we were able to create a connection to the database.
Right.
Very simple.
We even checked to hear if their connection was right and we even checked.
We did a query right here.
We send it in through the dysfunction.
You lie on the score Querrey we check back where we are right because that's the right way of doing
you wanted to make sure that you are connecting and you don't have any mistakes.
They hear we're using a while loop to look through those results.
So hopefully the section here will reinforce what you learned in the chapter in the section and I see
you're the next one take here